The ones that are in the Institute know about it because the people teaching them tell them that it's there.
Now, these are collections that aren't only used by them because scholarly research has become much more interdisciplinary in the last 10 or 15 years.
Lots of people probably doing literary criticism that are using the history science collections.
But Toronto does have one of the great history science collections in North America.
You know, the other thing we did was in 1968,
We bought from Richard Freeman his Darwin collection.
He did the bibliographical hand list of Darwin and used that as a basis to build on.
And we have the best Darwin collection in the world.
In the world.
Yeah.
We don't have the manuscripts.
But a printed edition is apparently.
They're mainly at Cambridge.
But if you want to do textual work with the printed
sources and bibliographical work with Darwin.
Do you have the best collections anyway?
Bill Bilda.
In San Francisco, in fact, I bought for the University, Alfred Russel Wallace's first scientific appearance in print, which is in a Welsh journal.
which I know we don't have.
I was just about to say, how did you know this?
Did you travel with a warrantless?
It's what's in my head.
How large is the collection that you have as supervision?
Oh, about 500,000 volumes, plus the manuscript.
Right, so you certainly don't know everything that's in there.
Oh, heavens no, no, no, no.
But now you must have areas that you're
actively trying to strengthen, what would they be?
All of them.
The only question that... Perhaps.
Do you honestly have that kind of a mandate from the university that will allow you, that will encourage you to strengthen every collection that you have?
Absolutely.
If I can find the money, I can do it on my own.
Oh, that's the key.
No, they'll provide some too.
They care.
The president of the University of Toronto does come, gets all excited about medieval Hebrew manuscripts, although he wouldn't actually recognize one if it fell on his head.
But he makes all the right noises.
You know, we have real support all the way down the line.
But, you know, that's now almost 30 years.
you know, it isn't just automatically there.
You have to pay attention to, you know, all your communities,
Well, do they give you money, or are you largely, are you also a fundraiser?
If it's something you want, fine, you can have it, but you have to do it.
Is that right?
Mm-hmm.
Last June.
It's a combination of bucks.
No, I mean, do you have, you know, the LCA equivalent of a Madison Council and a, you know, I mean, he'll give you a million bucks a year.
Oh, sorry.
No, no, sadly, no.
Um...
Last June, I was phoned by a dealer in Montreal who had acquired some 18th century English literature, and Moylam was a nonce volume.
A what volume?
A nonce volume.
It was 40 folio poems, all bound together in contemporary caps.
and it had a bit of swift and pope but this is mainly 1732 to 35 and but it had stephen duck in it it had all these anonymous things wonderful stuff lots of we had some of it but not most of it we didn't have and
I haven't seen one of those things, a folio one, for 25 years.
They usually get broken up.
They're always broken up.
You see the individual cones disbound, is what you see, because they get broken up.
So she said, was I interested?
And I said, yes.
And in the description, she did.
We did some checking.
And she said, well, I'm taking this to London next week for the book fair, unless you buy it.
And I said, fine, how much is this?
$12,000, which is really cheap.
So I said, I'll take it.
Send me two invoices, one
$6,000 and another $6,000.
And, you know, you may have to wait a little longer than 30 days.
But a good bookstore would be willing to do that.
Sure.
But I didn't actually have $12,000.
for that kind of material.
So Marie and I had lunch with a guy who's been one of our donors, and so we asked George for lunch, and he came, and we both had a little agenda for him.
because he provided some support for a printing assistant for the college for Massey.
I'm, incidentally, also a fellow at Massey College, so we're even more anxious.
And so I told him, I know this guy likes poetry.
He reads poetry.
He runs a huge investment council firm around
And I said, OK, George, this is for you.
This stuff, scams, rhymes, as in couplets, this is classic, Augustine age poetry.
You'd like to read?
It's only 12,000 bucks.
He wrote me a check.
That's great.
$12,000 American dollars.
No.
Fortunately, I was a dealer from Montreal.
Oh, great.
You just don't see this, though.
You don't see an institutional collector.
Well, who can tell you, the last time... Collecting this aggressively.
I was in... Maybe I haven't traveled.
Steve Weissman, who I'm sure you've met.
I know, Steve.
I'm hoping he's going to be in London around there, too, but we'll see.
He's probably still there.
They bought a house in the cost of 100 yards of the canvas at the bottom of the garden.
When Steve was in New York, and we went to see him every time we went to New York, both for the institution and ourselves, he claimed that there were only five librarians left who came to see him.
I mean, lots of people bought from his list, from his catalogs, but actually came and looked at the stuff, picked stuff off the shelves, had it quoted.
So you're one, Roger Stoddard has to be another.
Mark McCorrison certainly has to be a third.
There's two of us, so that's four.
Don Eddy.
Don Eddy was the fifth.
Don Eddy being where?
Cornell.
The Cornell person.
Okay.
I'm going to talk to Don Eddy.
Now, Steve, now it's down.
I saw him in Manhattan in October.
Had lunch with him on King Henry's road.
Well, we're down to three now.
Marie and Maeve and Roger, I think.
What's the significance of this?
This is pretty interesting, isn't it?
Well, the significance is... I mean, everybody believes you have to have all the goods.
You have to go out and see the stuff, feel the stuff, smell the stuff.
You have to try and experience it.
I wonder if I see this in the larger context of, you know, the book is really... I mean, we have libraries that are no longer libraries anymore.
Michigan just built a place that's not called the library.
It's a learning center or something, yeah.
You know, the Ford Ord thing.
That's a big deal, as far as I'm concerned.
There was not a library in the plans.
I mean, when they opened this new college, there was not a library there.
And then they responded to public criticism, and they put one in.
But there's no books there, from what I understand.
I think... I'm, you know, documenting all this stuff.
What it means is that institutions...
have shifted.
The old ones that have great staff had lots of it.
Now hire or try and hire managers.
You see, Roger will never be the head of Houghton.
Never.
No, no, that isn't the reason.
I mean, he's too good a book man.
That may be true, but that's not the reason he won't be out of hope.
What's the reason?
You've got to fight with the English Department.
Well, so Roger actually is not a very good administrator.
And the sad thing is that you have to be able to delegate and to organize things in such a way that a department runs smoothly, especially one of the size of the hotel.
You can't run a place that's got 30 to 40 people in it by doing everything yourself.
I mean, my place runs fine when I'm not there.
In fact, they claim that I'm better.
I cause crises.
Crises are good.
When I'm there.
Well, Wendorf is out at Harvard.
Yeah.
Have they replaced him yet?
Not yet.
No, no, they're riding around.
I told you they wrote both of us a letter.
I didn't realize it was for that position when you mentioned that.
Neither of us are going to go there, but... Unless they want to offer it to both of you, that would be interesting.
We have a team, a team appointment.
Is Leslie still with that?
Yes, she is.
Did you work with her at all?
I worked with her, well, we were in different institutions, but I worked with her in the context of this consortium that we established.
And I admire her work greatly.
She's really top-notch.
She was so helpful to me.
She's good.
I mean, she would say to me, I have done extraordinary things without having had to raise all that much money.
Because, I mean, the ultimate solution to, I mean, everybody realizes you can't have everything.
So, what you hope is that some other place has what you don't have.
So, now, if you're in a major institution, I mean, I used to have this argument with Bob Rosenthal all the time.
who didn't believe in class, he didn't give a shit about whether Chicago had a first edition of Paradise Lab.
You can see that anywhere.
But where are you going to find, you know, Reggie Turner's fiction?
Well, not very many places.
So what you should do, and Bob did this in Chicago, is collect the stuff that nobody else has.
Now, this is a really good principle
As an institution, the books I want most are ones no one else has, because then they've got to come to Toronto to use them.
Is that always in the back of your mind, they've got to come here?
Or is there a collecting impulse?
No, the collecting impulse is there, too.
But it is also true that your reputation, to some extent, is based on what you have that
people can't see anywhere else.
Yep, thanks.
That's a Greek response to the calamari, too.
The what?
I'm a... Oh, excuse me.
I didn't say what you meant.
I'm Greek for persuasion.
Anything else or is that everything else?
That's fine, just the bill, Kathy.
Okay.
But they, you know, the notion that you can specialize and build things and build on strength without necessarily having to have
I mean, the great example for Toronto is American literature.
We do not collect in a serious way American literature for a couple of reasons.
One is that, I mean, there's lots in the stacks that people want to read.
I mean, the printed division, they're in the stacks.
The reason is that nobody started early enough, and by the time I arrived, it was really
too late without an enormous expenditure.
What are you going to be able to do that Lilly hasn't done?
Well, sure, even more significant.
Buffalo's not very far.
New York's not very far.
Boston's not very far.
So these incredible resources are within an hour of Toronto.
So you have to think of a Canadian scholar.
But if somebody wants to give us a great collection, or fund a great collection, then fine.
I'm all for it.
Sure.
I'll start collecting American literature tomorrow.
And the American... It's kind of Britain's widow and find out what she's going to do with the other book.
Well, Selma, I suspect.
No, I think Paul should be going to end up there.
I think the core collection will go to the rest of it.
Will it?
Yeah.
But he was, Carter Bruden was already starting to sell stuff.
He was, but the core collection, which is really wonderful, you know, he had 70,000 books, but really maybe 20,000, they're really wonderful.
Yeah.
Which you, you know, somebody like yourself would love to have.
Sure.
Who would really want all 70,000 of those things, you know?
Well, that's a whole other story.
Another thing, where are you going to put them?
And you do get into, with collections like that, if, you know, I do... These are rarities, but what is the scholarly value to them, is what I'd like to know.
Well, what would the scholarly value be to an inscribed Salinger, you know, book of stories?
Rare as it undoubtedly is, but...
Why would you pay $20,000, $30,000, $40,000 for that?
Well, those are two different questions.
The reason you would pay that much is that the modern first market is a different thing.
Yeah, but does that impact on you, actually?
It does to the extent that certain things we do want are
more pricier because of that market, so that, for instance, Malcolm Lowry's first book, Ultramarine, is a very expensive book.
Now, fortunately, I found one at a Russell Hotel fair in London for 400 pounds.
So we have it.
It took me 20 years, though.
It took me 25 years.
I became the first American on that, which doesn't count, of course.
It took me 25 years to find Anna Green Gables.
That, of course, has great Canadian significance.
So, you know, I had to pay $5,000 for it.
What do you get for $5,000 when you buy a book like that?
If you're going to have what you think is the greatest collection of Canadian literature in the country,
you've got to have Anne of Queen Gables.
I mean, this is the problem with Rosenthal's theory, that if you're part, if you're the University of Toronto, you've got to have a first edition of Paradise Lost.
I mean, you've got to have all this other stuff as well.
Well, why do you have to Paradise Lost?
Well, just because it's, this is the canon.
Okay.
I'm just asking.
Just to be respectable.
I mean, Toronto has the only set of four folios in Canada.
We have the only first folio in Canada.
How do you know that?
There's only one?
UBC had a set for a while, but they were on loan from the Folger, and as I understand it, the Folger took them back.
You mean they couldn't spare one?
I think they did this.
It was a very odd thing, and it was years and years ago.
That's a problem with Folger.
Why couldn't they give one?
They decided that... Or sell one to you.
Well, I think they saw the Slippery Slope.
They decided that they would land out two sets.
One went to UBC, and one went to St.
Andrews.
And then I guess there was some pressure for another one, and they said, hang on, why is it...
that we have 79 first folios or 81, depending on how you count the fragments.
Well, did they come up with a satisfactory answer to that?
Why do they have that many?
Well, the answer was that... It could just be the Hinman... So Hinman could look at them.
It's a pretty weak... No, no, but it's not too far off.
The Boston Athenaeum telling you why they bought that...
set of whatever it was.
That's right.
Well, I mean, the Boston Public Library and its two Baysom books, you know, and I, every time I see Bill Scheide, he says to me, the definition of duplitude is that at least before 1830, and in many cases after, there is no such thing as a duplitude in the absolute literal sense.
There are no two copies of printed book exactly the same.
Except maybe by coincidence.
Well, see, I've interviewed Owen Gingrich for my new book.
I love what he's done with Copernicus.
That's fascinating.
Well, I'll show you a great Copernicus if you want.
Okay, sure.
I'm sure that Owen's handled it already.
Oh, yes, oh, yeah.
Well, he kind of, we believe that it belonged to the first guy to teach Copernican theory in Germany.
Well, that would give it four or five stars in his, because what he's trying to do is determine the influence, the impact that each of these paintings have.
And, of course, everyone was bound by the individual owner, so that's an interesting bibliographical element to it.
But he's looking for the annotations and the marginality of it.
This one, this is Philip Landsberg's copy.
He may even have handled more First Copernicus
than they are known to be in existence now, because a few are missing some things.
I think he's handled them all, you know.
He's certainly had a go at it.
That's fascinating.
I love that story.
That's a real census.
Now, Bill Reese told me in San Francisco, you know, he sent around a little questionnaire about Catlin, about the American Indians.
Oh, really?
A questionnaire?
To describe your copies.
Also, Bill is doing something.
He's identified 15 separate issues of it.
Oh, that's interesting.
I've got to talk to Bill about this.
He's going to write about it.
He's going to do a book on it.
And there are two here, you see.
We have one, and the Royal Ontario Museum has one.
Now, the reason this came up is that I haven't replied to his questionnaire yet from dilatory habits and
But I've now promised him I will go and describe the copies.
And, of course, I have to go and describe the one at Rahm, because there's nobody there that could do it.
Thanks.
Nope.
That's great.
There are all kinds of these things, like Tom Taylor took on the Octavo Audubon.
and discovered all kinds of things.
Nobody knew about the Octavo Audubon.
But Gingrich is, sure, if you can find a book, there's a census of Vesalius as well.
Vesalius, I think, didn't find its Gingrich, as it were.
Well, of course, because that book is, see, the whole genesis of this thing is that he read someplace that's the greatest book he'd never read, you know?
Well, I always thought Newton's Brunkehio was that, was the prime candidate.
Copernicus is right up there, though, sure.
And so he wanted to prove that this is not true, and maybe you can learn something from the individual copies.
And to get a provenance for each book, I mean, that's really quite a...
It's a nice story, I mean, and it does.
And of course, reading, as Anthony Grafton says, he starts, he says, reading is hot right now.
Just the whole study of reading.
And it's all, and that's why I found his lecture just riveting.
Just riveting.
It was wonderful.
He's wonderful.
Lucky old Princeton students.
You know, they've got Darden there.
They had Natalie Davis as well.
I talked to Fagels last week, and he says,
I said, the graphic's coming up now.
He says, those bastards better not steal them.
I know they want to get them.
He says, they've been trying to get him, take him from us for years.
It's funny.
He was great.
That was a good meeting.
In fact, I enjoyed that whole thing.
This was my first year at Columbia this year.
Oh, right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It was fun.
Yeah.
We're doing fine.
I'm going to go use the head.
Okay, I'm talking to Father Farge.
Okay.
So, I'm just giving a little background to the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies that in the 1870s, Pope Leo XIII, he was a remarkable Pope.
He got the Church interested in social justice, for example, with certain encyclicals, and
He also wanted to give a better philosophical, theological foundation to Catholic theology.
So he promoted, he advocated the return to the philosophy of St.
Thomas Aquinas from the 13th century.
And that started the whole vogue in the Catholic Church of studying the Middle Ages themselves.
And the Brazilian Fathers, who had started St.
Michael's here about that time, well, a little earlier, 1852,
They were quite interested in this project in the 1900s, 1910, 1920s.
And one of our men especially was interested in it, and they were doing philosophy here, trying to reorient it.
And along from France came Etienne Gilson.
Could you spell that for me?
G-I-L-S-O-N, Gilson.
And he was kind of disgusted with the way things were in France.
He was looking for something new where
philosophy, which he was a philosopher, he could study that in its complete medieval context, rather than just in a philosophical, one-faceted angle.
So he and this other man, Henry Carr, got together in the 1920s and decided they would begin a project here to study the Middle Ages.
Specifically Aquinas, or just the Middle Ages?
behind it all, but no, they didn't want to just be narrow about it.
They wanted to set the whole thing together.
So they started the Institute of Medieval Studies, and our religious order, the Brazilian Fathers, sent off five or six people right away to Europe to get degrees in medieval things, canon law and philosophy and theology and history and literature.
So they continued to do that, and this place built up, of course— This place meaning here?
The Pontifical Institute, yeah.
Now, was this—were the fathers active elsewhere in the world, or were they really focusing this attention here?
Oh, well, they were growing through this time, so they were starting new places throughout Canada, several colleges, small Catholic colleges.
But this particular exercise that you're talking about was right here.
Oh, that's here.
It's focused right here.
And then in 1939, they got the Pontifical Charter from the Vatican to give degrees on the authority of the Holy See.
And so we've been doing that.
The whole idea was to take people who were interested in the Middle Ages and do what Gielsen wanted to do, and not simply
be a person who knew medieval philosophy or medieval literature or medieval history, but someone who was familiar with the culture of the period.
So what the Institute has tried to do over the past 60, 70 years is form students who have this broad-based interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary approach to medieval culture.
that they will know the literature, philosophy, theology, law, history, and art.
And also, we put very heavy emphasis on training people to read the original documents, that is, to know Latin well enough and to be able to read the
Are these undergraduate students?
No, they're all graduate students.
Okay.
And are they preparing for the lives of the priesthood?
No, no.
Very few of them are.
Most of them have been lay students going out to .
.
So they're scholars.
Yeah, yeah, going out.
You know, we've got people teaching all across the United States who were trained here.
In the 40s and 50s and 60s, we were pretty well doing that on our own here in Toronto.
And then in the middle 60s, the University of Toronto kind of caught on, and they began to organize a center for medieval studies.
Were you independent at that time?
Yes, that's right, that's right.
So from the 60s, we've kind of collaborated with the university
We've done a lot of the teaching.
They've helped us with some money, and so the place has grown.
Now, the library has been totally the work of the Pontifical Institute.
The university has had practically nothing to do with that.
You mentioned original sources.
Could you explain a little bit about that, the philosophy of that, and how you acquired these things?
Well, we've tried to acquire as many printed books
as we can find, that with original texts from the Middle Ages, whether they're printed in the early centuries of printing or, you know, like the 16th, 17th century.
Now, for manuscripts, we haven't had the money to go around buying manuscripts.
But what we have done is bought a lot of microfilms.
We have 8,000 reels of microfilm of manuscripts, you see.
So we have a huge collection of manuscripts on microfilm.
And the idea was to be able to read the text and then be able to interpret them in the sort of broad context of medieval culture.
Richard had mentioned something during lunch that you are embarked on a project, a bibliographical project, involving Aquinas that may take 300 years.
Is that, is that, are you familiar at all with that as a major?
Well, he might be talking about the Leonine edition of Aquinas, which we have had, a few of our people have worked on it, but it's not centered here.
It's centered in Rome.
And there's, for a while, there was a branch of it in Yale.
And it's a critical edition of the works of St.
Thomas Aquinas.
Leonine, L-E-O-N-I-N-A?
Right, the Leonine Commission.
They got off to a bad start.
They printed several volumes that turned out to be not very well done.
So now they're having to redo those.
But the problem is, you know, they still have a lot of work to do, but the people who want to do that are growing fewer and fewer and older and older.
The original sort of emphasis on Thomas Aquinas is pretty well gone.
We've got a lot of editions of his works here.
We've got all his manuscripts on microfilm, etc.
But there aren't too many people studying him anymore.
But the vogue for studying the Middle Ages is quite, as you know, quite strong.
Do you have an explanation for that?
It's a cyclical thing.
It's funny.
See, the Catholic Church promoted Aquinas for nearly a century.
And then it kind of got away from it.
With the Vatican, the Second Vatican Council, it sort of started, rather than look at that scholastic medieval foundation as a foundation for theology, it turned to more to scripture.
And a lot of emphasis has been done now informing people to read the, you know, to be scripture scholars and to
based theology, as it was done in the first few centuries of the Church, on commentaries on scripture.
And that's what the vogue in the Catholic Church has been in the last twenty or thirty years.
Now, the administration of the pontifical medievalists, is it a part of the university, or is it something that's... Technically, we're a graduate center in St.
Michael's College.
area around here is St.
We're on the fourth floor of their library.
So St.
Michael's College is a federated university now within the University of Toronto.
But it's independent, but it's federated.
And there's, you see, there's a federated Anglican College, Trinity.
There's a federated United Church College, which is Victoria.
And there's a federated Catholic college in the University of Toronto.
And then there are several colleges that are sort of non-sectarian, the part of it.
And your holdings, the Pontifical Institute, how large is your library?
Would you just estimate it?
Ninety to a hundred thousand printed volumes, as I say, all focused on the Middle Ages.
I don't know that we have a better collection, say, than Harvard.
I don't think we do.
But it's all concentrated right here.
It's easy to put your hands on it.
You can, it's not spread out, you know, among the various disciplines, as it would be at the Widener Library.
But if you don't have a better collection than Harvard, you probably might have the second-best collection.
We might.
We might, frankly, in the Middle Ages, in North America.
But, as I say— How does this happen just through the will of these original
Yeah, and they got some people to help, you know, with some money.
We've got a bit of a foundation.
We're struggling with it right now, but people give us... The thing is, you could buy a lot of these books cheap in the 30s, and Gielsen really went all over Europe buying books.
He actively went out and bought himself.
Oh, yeah.
He didn't leave us to surrogates and all.
See, he divided his time...
Six months in Europe, six months here, every year.
And he'd buy books in Europe.
And see, he was a man who was in the Académie Française, which is about as high as you can get, and in the Collège de France.
So he was constantly invited all over the world to give lectures.
and to get honorary degrees.
We have about 40 of his honorary degrees in our rare book group.
And so wherever he went, he would buy books.
Was he interested in rarity?
He was interested in texts.
It wasn't in the value of the book.
It was in what the text was.
So really, in his mind, this was to be a working library?
Yes.
We have not tried to acquire things that are worth a lot of money.
For that purpose alone?
No.
Unless, of course, it happens to be something that's essential.
That's right.
But, I mean, no.
And as I say, a lot of this he was able to buy fairly cheaply in the 30s and in the 40s and 50s as well.
And he was active until he was in his 80s, and he used to come here every year until he was about 87.
And when did he pass away?
I think in 79.
And so, you know, he did a lot of this work himself.
He was an extraordinary man.
He wrote a book on just about every major philosopher in the Middle Ages, plus poets, you know, a book on Dante.
I mean, he... I'll check him out.
Just spell his name.
Gielson.
G-I-L-S-O-N-A-T-N.
We have under his name at least 1,100 separate items.
Jeez.
Because his works were translated into every language.
Is it written of him?
Yes.
One of our men wrote it.
Larry Shook, Lawrence, S-H-O-O-K.
S-H-O, I'll find that at Harvard.
Oh, sure.
Sure, you'll find it there.
I thought that Boyle came from here, isn't that right?
Yes, yes.
And I, by the way, I'll be going to Italy.
How would I go about contacting to get Leonard Boyle?
an introduction to the Vatican Library, which I want to include in this new book.
Well, probably write him.
I could—you give me your card, and I can certainly—I mean, one of our secretaries here is in the habit of calling him quite a bit.
She can mention your name.
I'm author of a book called The Gentle Madness, which I think I mentioned to you.
Okay, that's the kind of thing that might appeal to Leonard Boyle.
He's not a stuffy academic.
Well, this is a survey of libraries that have been so significant through history, also libraries of the future and the relevance of books as we enter the new millennium.
Want me to write the title of my book on that card?
Yeah, please.
I'm sorry, Father.
Why don't you just continue?
As you know, when the
Library of Congress began, three or four years ago, its series on great libraries of the world.
The first library they chose was the Vatican Library, right?
Yes, sir.
Were you there for that?
No.
Okay.
Well, of course, yeah, of course.
I have the Yale book.
Yeah, okay.
I'm sorry, I was thinking of something else.
Yeah, yeah.
Of course, yeah.
I've been to every one of those.
Naturally, if you're writing about libraries, you have to go to the Vatican Library.
But, yes, Father Boyle used to teach paleography here.
In other words, he teach students how to read those squiggly little old handwritings.
This is the title of my book and my publisher.
I'm talking about that book tonight.
That's why I'm here.
I've been invited to talk about that book.
Bibliophiles.
Files.
Bibliomains.
And the eternal passion for books.
That's my book in print.
And this new one will be not a sequel, but a companion volume.
This one is more about the passion for collecting over 2,500 years, and how we owe so much to these collections that were put together.
This will be a lot more difficult.
This would be like deeper on libraries, libraries of the future, book culture.
The canon wars, you know, is where they're really big down in the States.
The canon meaning literary canon, like Shakespeare.
Is Shakespeare still relevant, you know?
I mean, I can imagine that we have questions that way, you know.
Well, and they're doing a lot of very interesting people.
Alberto Echol and St.
Bartem Grubori on Saturday.
Dr. Billington from the Library of Congress, public player there at the Public Library.
Great.
And I wanted to go to England in two weeks.
So it's going to be very comprehensive.
The Vatican is essential.
I would love to have an interview with Bobby Boyle.
Should I party on this?
The thing with that is do some reading first on the Vatican Library.
Leonard doesn't like somebody coming in
Just knowing nothing.
I mean, you know, from scratch.
Check my book.
Okay.
My book was a finalist last year for the National Book Critics.
No, I mean, do some reading on his library.
Well, I wouldn't go there if I were able to do it.
Yeah, okay.
Because he'll be turned off if you come and want him to start from scratch.
I never want to waste anybody's time.
That's right.
I just learned about you yesterday, by the way.
This is why...
Yeah.
And he's the head of the Slavic division at NYPL, and he said, if you're going to Toronto, you must go here.
So this was yesterday morning, and so that's why it seems like I'm ignorant of what's going on here.
Trust me, I've only known about you for 24 hours.
What's your full name?
James Farge, F-A-R-G.
Do you use a middle initial?
The Reverend, right?
Hmm.
Yeah.
Okay.
And you're the librarian here?
I am, yes.
Okay.
But I'm not a professional librarian.
I'm a historian.
Uh-huh.
And what are you a historian of?
My main interest is the history of the University of Paris.
Most of the things I've published have been on the Paris University in the sixteenth century.
At least I've published five books about the University of Paris in the 16th century.
So that's, you know, a narrow little corner, but... To jump back before I forget, should I write a letter to Father Boyle and reference this conversation?
I would, but as I say, I'll have this secretary... I'd like to do something formal on it, and that way I can propose to him what it is I'm doing and why I want to come... Sure.
I'll have the secretary...
tell him that you're going to write.
That's right.
I want to come in June sometime, and it will be part of a broad Italian segment.
There's going to be a chapter in this book on Eastern European book culture, Sarajevo.
I understood you were particularly interested in that.
The Soviet Union and what this means to book culture, and that's just one chapter.
See, I was telling you on the phone yesterday that there's two or three people who want to raise some money for what they call the... I might have this wrong.
The glogolitic collection.
Now, that has to do with Croatia.
Croatian culture.
You'll have to look it up and get the right... See, it's not my area at all, but I think they call it glogolitic.
How do you think it might stop?
I think it's G-L-A-G-O-L-I-T-I-C.
G-O-L-I-T-I-C.
Glagolitic.
I'll check it on the internet.
You never know.
And it has to do with Croatian stuff.
I wish I knew more about it, but they want to have a little center here for glagolitic culture.
Here, meaning?
In this...
Right here.
Are you kidding?
Yeah.
And are these people from expatriates?
Yes.
They're people from there.
That's right.
And what do they want to do?
They want to set up and deposit their own materials from Croatia?
They want to raise money to buy materials on that culture.
That's spectacular.
Yeah.
Well, we'd like to do it.
We don't have the money to tell them to do it, but if they give us the money, we'll do it.
They'll certainly give it a happy and safe home.
That's right.
Yeah.
Is this kind of developing out of Canada, this particular thing?
I wonder why they picked you from this.
Well, there is a center here in Toronto for the study of Croatian culture, but it's just a sort of, you know, one-person operation.
It doesn't have a library except a personal library of one person.
And she, I can't tell you her name, Kunik or something like that.
Maybe when I call you back, you might have it.
Why don't they want to do this in Croatia?
I'm not in on it.
Father Dimnik is in on this.
You see what I'm saying?
Because this is very interesting, because during the whole Soviet period, they were set up outside of those Eastern European countries.
This would be one of those, perhaps.
But you see, here it would be... It would be...
I believe the period they're talking about is like the 7th to the 10th century.
Test, test, test, test, test.